Remake Convert2RHEL (#1627)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/con_converting-a-host-to-rhel.adoc

[id="converting-a-host-to-rhel_{context}"]
= Converting a Host to {RHEL}

You can convert {RHEL} derivative distributions into a supportable {RHEL} on a host while retaining installed applications and configurations.
{Project} provides the *Convert2RHEL* utility to simplify the conversion process.

The *Convert2RHEL* utility in {Project} consists of an Ansible role and Ansible playbook.

> You use the Ansible role to generate conversion data on {ProjectServer}, that is, enables required repositories and creates products, activation keys, and host groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You use the Ansible role to generate conversion data on {ProjectServer}, which includes required repositories and creates products, activation keys, and host groups.
```

> You use the Ansible role to generate conversion data on {ProjectServer}, which includes enabling required repositories and creating products, activation keys, and host groups.

Author: @maximiliankolb I tried to word it differently than you were suggesting, pls check.

Reviewer: Sounds good to me!

* Ensure that you have enabled Red Hat repositories in {Project} for the minor {RHEL} version to which you convert your hosts.

.High-Level Conversion Steps
. Import the `{ansible-namespace}.convert2rhel` Ansible role and variables.
For more information, see {ConfiguringAnsibleDocURL}importing-Ansible-roles_ansible[Importing Ansible Roles and Variables] in _{ConfiguringAnsibleDocTitle}_.
. Configure Ansible variables for generation of conversion data.
For more information, see xref:variables-for-generation-of-conversion-data_{context}[].
. Assign the `{ansible-namespace}.convert2rhel` role to the host that represents {ProjectServer}.
For more information, see {ConfiguringAnsibleDocURL}adding-ansible-roles-to-an-existing-host_ansible[Assigning Ansible Roles to an Existing Host] in _{ConfiguringAnsibleDocTitle}_.
. Run the Ansible role on {ProjectServer}.
For more information, see {ConfiguringAnsibleDocURL}running-ansible-roles-on-a-host_ansible[Running Ansible Roles on a Host] in _{ConfiguringAnsibleDocTitle}_.
+

> The Ansible role generates data required for host conversion, that is, repositories, certificates, activation keys and host groups.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Ansible role generates data required for host conversion, that is, repositories, certificates, activation keys, and host groups.
```

> The role enables the `{RepoRHEL7Server}` repository with the 7Server release and x86_64 architecture, or `{RepoRHEL8BaseOS}` and `{RepoRHEL8AppStream}`, or both, depending on which variables you have set in the previous steps.

Reviewer: I feel like "7Server" deserves some kind of highlighting, as does "x86_64".

[id="converting-a-host-to-rhel_{context}"]
= Converting a Host to {RHEL}

You can convert {RHEL} derivative distributions into a supportable {RHEL} on a host while retaining installed applications and configurations.

> {Project} provides the Convert2RHEL utility to simplify the conversion process.

Reviewer: Maybe some form of highlighting for "Convert2RHEL"?

The Convert2RHEL utility in {Project} consists of an Ansible role and an Ansible playbook.
You use the Ansible role to generate conversion data on {ProjectServer}, that is, repositories, products, activation keys, and host groups.
Then you perform the actual conversion on the host using the Ansible playbook.

You can convert:

* CentOS Linux 7 to {RHEL} 7
* Oracle Linux 7 to {RHEL} 7
* CentOS Linux 8 to {RHEL} 8
* Oracle Linux 8 to {RHEL} 8

> You cannot convert a version 7 system into {RHEL} 8, or a version 8 system into {RHEL} 7.

Reviewer: Is it really necessary to explain what it _cannot_ do?

Can you convert Rocky Linux 8 to RHEL8? AlmaLinux?

Author: The situation is this: The listed conversion paths are officially supported by RH. There are other possible conversion paths, which are described in an article that is referenced in Additional resources below.
I wonder if we should mention those links for non-Satellite as well, because users eventually need to access RH resources anyway, such as for the subscription manifest.

Reviewer: Maybe reword to "If you want to convert EL7 to EL8, see LEAPP" which I think is documented for Foreman Server? Otherwise, leave as is; I might create a follow-up PR to extend it slightly.

Author: The CLI utility can convert other systems, but the Ansible role and playbook provides only the listed conversions. (Verified with developers.)

Author: Seriously, I wouldn't complicate this and go just with the listed conversion paths as supported by the tool.

The conversion process is similar to a minor release upgrade of {RHEL} in which every RPM package on the system is replaced.
Third-party packages and non-{Team} packages that are not available in {RHEL} are retained.

> The Convert2RHEL utility removes unnecessary packages such as logos, or packages known to cause issues during the conversion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Convert2RHEL utility removes unnecessary packages such as logos or packages known to cause issues during the conversion.
```

> The utility replaces the `CentOS-release` or `Oracle-release` package with the `rhel-release` package, and all packages signed by CentOS or Oracle with their {Team} equivalents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The utility replaces the `CentOS-release` or `Oracle-release` package with the `rhel-release` package, and all packages signed by CentOS or Oracle with their Red Hat equivalents.
```

There are no Foreman/Katello/ATIX distributions.

> ifdef::satellite[]
> The utility also subscribes the host to {Team} Subscription Management.
> endif::[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The utility also subscribes the host to {Team} Subscription Management.
```

I assume this is necessary for all builds; otherwise, RHEL won't receive any content.

> The amount of time the conversion process takes can vary depending on how many packages need to be replaced, network speed, storage speed, and similar factors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The duration of the conversion process depends on the number of packages that have to be replaced, network speed, storage speed, and similar factors.
```

.Prerequisites

> * Review https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html-single/converting_from_an_rpm-based_linux_distribution_to_rhel/index#con_supported-conversion-paths_converting-from-a-linux-distribution-to-rhel[Supported conversion paths] in _Converting from an RPM-based Linux distribution to RHEL_.

Reviewer: Maybe for non-satellite build targets, you add "Ensure the OS of your managed host is supported by the convert2rhel utility." and make this satellite only.

> ifndef::orcharhino[]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ifdef::satellite[]
```

What's the alternative for non-Satellite?

Author: Why can't we mention the official docs for the tool for non-Satellite?

Author: Oh, hang on. There are man pages in the tool that might be an alternative.

Author: Why can't we link to the official docs of the utility for all products? If the user uses RHEL for hosts, they need to access the official docs eventually regardless of the "Foreman" product.

Author: @maximiliankolb I don't understand your reasoning, can you please enlighten me on that?

* You must have completed the steps 1.{range}5. of the procedure https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html-single/converting_from_an_rpm-based_linux_distribution_to_rhel/index#proc_preparing-for-a-rhel-conversion_converting-from-a-linux-distribution-to-rhel[Preparing for a RHEL conversion] in _Converting from an RPM-based Linux distribution to RHEL_.
* Ensure you have a subscription manifest uploaded to your {Project} and that there are sufficient {RHEL} entitlements allocated for the conversions you intend.
Alternatively, you can use Ansible variables to tell the role to import the manifest from disk.
The manifest must be imported to the organization to which you will register hosts for conversion.
+
You can update your allocations and download the updated manifest from the https://access.redhat.com[Red Hat Customer Portal].
ifndef::orcharhino[]
For more information, see https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_subscription_management/2022/html/using_red_hat_subscription_management/using_manifests_con[Using manifests] in _Red Hat Subscription Management_.

> endif::[]

Author: @maximiliankolb I'm not sure if this should be included for orcharhino as well or not. Pls let me know.

[id="converting-a-host-to-rhel_{context}"]
= Converting a Host to {RHEL}

You can convert {RHEL} derivative distributions into a supportable {RHEL} on a host while retaining installed applications and configurations.
{Project} provides the Convert2RHEL utility to simplify the conversion process.

The Convert2RHEL utility in {Project} consists of an Ansible role and an Ansible playbook.
You use the Ansible role to generate conversion data on {ProjectServer}, that is, repositories, products, activation keys, and host groups.
Then you perform the actual conversion on the host using the Ansible playbook.

You can convert:

* CentOS 7 to {RHEL} 7
* Oracle 7 to {RHEL} 7
* CentOS 8 to {RHEL} 8

> * Oracle 8 to {RHEL} 8

Reviewer 2: I think they're named CentOS Linux and Oracle Linux.

The utility replaces the `CentOS-release` or `Oracle-release` package with the `rhel-release` package, and all packages signed by CentOS or Oracle with their {Team} equivalents.
ifdef::satellite[]
The utility also subscribes the host to {Team} Subscription Management.
endif::[]

The amount of time the conversion process takes can vary depending on how many packages need to be replaced, network speed, storage speed, and similar factors.

.Prerequisites
* Review https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html-single/converting_from_an_rpm-based_linux_distribution_to_rhel/index#con_supported-conversion-paths_converting-from-a-linux-distribution-to-rhel[Supported conversion paths] in _Converting from an RPM-based Linux distribution to RHEL_.
ifdef::satellite[]
* You must have completed the steps 1.{range}5. of the procedure https://access.redhat.com/documentation/en-us/red_hat_enterprise_linux/8/html-single/converting_from_an_rpm-based_linux_distribution_to_rhel/index#proc_preparing-for-a-rhel-conversion_converting-from-a-linux-distribution-to-rhel[Preparing for a RHEL conversion] in _Converting from an RPM-based Linux distribution to RHEL_.
endif::[]

> * Ensure you have a subscription manifest uploaded to your {Project} and that there are sufficient {RHEL} entitlements allocated for the conversions you intend.

Reviewer 3: I would mention here that it can be also done also by the `convert2rhel` role

[id="converting-a-host-to-rhel_{context}"]
= Converting a Host to {RHEL}

You can convert {RHEL} derivative distributions into a supportable {RHEL} on a host while retaining installed applications and configurations.
{Project} provides the *Convert2RHEL* utility to simplify the conversion process.

The *Convert2RHEL* utility in {Project} consists of an Ansible role and Ansible playbook.
You use the Ansible role to generate conversion data on {ProjectServer}, that is, enables required repositories and creates products, activation keys, and host groups.
Then you perform the actual conversion on the host using the Ansible playbook.

You can use the Ansible role to generate conversion data for the following conversions:

* CentOS Linux 7 to {RHEL} 7
* Oracle Linux 7 to {RHEL} 7
* CentOS Linux 8 to {RHEL} 8

> * Oracle Linux 8 to {RHEL} 8

Author: @maximiliankolb When I mention other systems, then the problem is that the General Steps no longer apply and an alternative approach must be taken.
